# Python API Homework Solution: The assessment of the relationship between Weather and Latitude (OpenWeatherMap API) and Hotel selections at Ideal Weather locations (Geoapify API)

## Background

Leveraged Python requests, APIs, and JSON traversals to answer questions related to the Weather and Vacationing across the world.

### Before requesting data from Python API links:

1. I created a new repository in GitHub for this project called `python-api-challenge`. 

2. Inside the new repository:
    * I cloned the new repository to my computer.
    * Inside my local Git repository, I created a directory for this assignment using the folder name Weatherpy.
    * Inside the folder Weatherpy, I added the following content:
      -	A new file called api_key.py, which includes the API keys for OpenWeatherMap API and Geoapify API.
      -	A gitignore file to make sure that api_keys.py is not visible when the python-api-challenge directory on the local drive is pushed to the public Git Hub.
      -	The 2 starter code with Jupyter Notebook extensions, WeatherPy.ipynb and VacationPy.ipynb.
      -	A new folder titled Output to included the sample of cities for the Weather and Vacation analyses, with .csv extension.
      -	Several .png plots and 2 .jpg maps
    * I pushed these changes back to GitHub at the conclusion of the analysis. 

### Files including data used for analysis, and the solution output text files

* PyBank/Resources/budget_data.csv - Ran Python code on this PyBank assignment data to generate the final solution output.  
* PyBank/Analysis/financial_analysis.txt is the final solution output for PyBank assignment.

* PyPoll/Resources/election_data.csv - Ran Python code on this PyPoll assignment data to generate the final solution output.  
* PyBank/Analysis/election_analysis.txt is the final solution output for PyPoll assignment.

### Python coding files,*.py

* PyBank/main.py - Ran this Python code to generate the final analysis and print the output for PyBank assignment

* PyPoll/main.py - Ran this Python code to generate the final analysis and print the output for PyPoll assignment 

## Analysis Steps
In the PyBank assignment we were tasked with creating a Python script to analyze the financial records of a company, and were given a financial dataset called budget_data.csv. The dataset is composed of two columns: "Date" and "Profit/Losses".
1. I created a Python script that analyzed the records to calculate each of the following values:
	* The total number of months included in the dataset
	* The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period
	* The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, and then the average of those changes
	* The greatest increase in profits (date and amount) over the entire period
	* The greatest decrease in profits (date and amount) over the entire period
2. The final script printed the analysis output to the terminal and exported a text file with the results to the Analysis folder.

In this PyPoll assignment, we were tasked with helping a small/rural town modernize its vote-counting process and were given a set of poll data called election_data.csv. The dataset is composed of three columns: "Voter ID", "County", and "Candidate". 
1. I created a Python script that analyzed the votes and calculated each of the following values:
	* The total number of votes cast
	* A complete list of candidates who received votes
	* The percentage of votes each candidate won
	* The total number of votes each candidate won
	* The winner of the election based on popular vote
2. The final script printed the analysis output to the terminal and exported a text file with the results to the Analysis folder.

## References

* Data for the 2 datasets wer generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and are intended for educational purposes only.
* Our instructor, Ms. Alexandria Kalika, provided assistance during office hours for the PyPoll analysis.
